Thank you. Thank you. A very popular First Lady, I have to admit. Thank you very much and thank you, Melania. And I want to say, hello, Georgia. We did a great job. You know we won Georgia, just so you understand. And we won Florida and we won a lot of places.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
Thank you. Well, thank you very much. Thank you. No, we won a lot of places. We won Florida. We won Ohio. Big, big. We won them big. Remember we were going to lose Florida they said. We were five down in Florida. We won by a lot. We were way down in Ohio and we won by a lot. I think they say that if you win Florida and if you win Ohio in history, you’ve never lost an election. This has got to be a first time. But the truth is they were right, we’ve never lost that election. We’re winning this election. And I will say, we’re fighting very hard for this state. When you look at all of the corruption and all of the problems having to do with this election, all I can do is campaign and then I wait for the numbers. But when the numbers come out of ceilings and come out of leather bags, you start to say, “What’s going on?” But I want to just tell you that I love this state. I love the people in this state and I’m thrilled to be back in magnificent Georgia with thousands of proud, hardworking American patriots.
Let me begin by wishing you all a very Merry Christmas. Remember the word. Remember. We started five years ago, and I said you’re going to be saying Christmas again. And we say it proudly again, although there’ll be trying to take that word again out of the vocabulary. We’re not going to let them do that. I also want to express our profound condolences to the family of Harrison Deal, a young and brilliant campaign staffer for Senator Loeffler, who tragically died in a terrible car accident yesterday. You know about it. He was an incredible magnificent young man. And I just want to say our prayers are with his friends and loved ones and we will keep his memory in our hearts. And he’s looking down right now and he’s very proud of Kelly and David. He’s very proud of all of us. So I just want to express my best wishes to the family and everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Kelly. And let me also express our warmest best wishes and love to all of those people and families suffering from the COVID pandemic. Vaccines are on their way at a level that nobody ever thought possible. It would have taken another administration five years. It took us seven months and they’re starting next week and we’re going to start vaccinating. And a lot of people already are vaccinated. It’s called you have … You caught it and you’re immune. I hope it’s true. They say that before I had it, they said if you catch it, you’re immune for life. Once I got it, they said, if you catch it, you’re immune for four months. Right. 
But they’re on their way, the vaccines and they’re great vaccines and safe, and brilliant actually to think of it, what we’ve done in such a short period of time. Nobody thought. They call it, even some of the enemies call it a medical miracle what we’ve done. And we also have great therapeutics and they’re already here and I can testify to that fact. I’ll tell you what, some incredible work has been done over the last seven months. And we should always get credit for that. Don’t let anyone ever take it away from us.
We’re gathered here tonight to ensure … A very important word, ensure because these are two great, great people that I know so well and respected by everybody in Washington and beyond, that David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler win the most important congressional runoff, probably in American history. I really believe that. I think it’s in American … There’s never been a time like this, where you have two at one time, at least you have two beauties. And you know what, you also have two beauties running against them, but beauty in a different way, there are two beauties.
But there’s never been a case where a state has had this prominence on Senate races because they’re never together. And this is something that’s very important and you have to get out and you have to vote. You have to make sure you have every vote counted. Every one has to count. You got to make sure they don’t throw away any ballots. You got to make sure that when they collect the ballots and they start bragging about how many ballots they already have, you got to make sure your secretary of state knows what the hell he’s doing. And you got to make sure your governor gets a lot tougher than he’s been. He’s got to get a lot tougher. Because at stake in this election is control of the US Senate and that really means control of this country. The voters of Georgia will determine which party runs every committee, writes every piece of legislation, controls every single taxpayer dollar.
Very simply, you will decide whether your children will grow up in a socialist country or whether they will grow up in a free country. And I will tell you this, socialist is just the beginning for these people. These people want to go further than socialism. They want to go into a communistic form of government. I have no doubt about it. Somehow that doesn’t suit Georgia too well. That doesn’t work too well I think, Kelly, in Georgia, does it?
David and Kelly are running against radical Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock. Ossoff and Warnock are the two most extreme, far-left liberal Senate candidates in the history of our country, and you got them both at one time. How did that happen? I think you both got lucky, but we’ll see, right? We’ll see. You must go vote and vote early starting December 14th. You have to do it. They cheated and they rigged our presidential election, but we will still win it. We will still win it. We’ll still win it. And they’re going to try and rig this election too. No, we continue to fight. We’ve had some great moments. We just need somebody with courage to do what they have to do because everyone knows it’s wrong. We need somebody with courage, somebody that makes decisions, then we’ll be going up to the Supreme Court very shortly. And we really, if we have- If we have courage and wisdom, I think, you know what the answer’s going to be because you can’t let people get away with what they got away with. Think of it, with over 74 million votes, over, think of that, more than … I got more votes than any sitting president in history. 11 million more votes than we got in 2016. And we thought that if we could get 68 million, 67 million that would be the end. All of our great, brilliant geniuses said you’d win if you get 67 or 68. It’s over. We got 74 million-plus and they’re trying to convince us that we lost. We didn’t lose. They found a lot of ballots to be nice about it. And they got rid of some too. The 74, let me tell you, the 74 could have been even higher.
As the great pollster, John McLaughlin, who was really a great pollster, one of the most highly respected, he said, “There’s no way this could have happened other than the obvious cheating or a rigged election. There’s no way it could have happened.” It’s interesting, I wrote this out and I had just a few of the facts, which I think … Because I want to get onto the presidentials. I want to stay on presidential, but I got to get to these two because they’re incredible. But listen to this. These are the facts. And each fact is irrefutable and it means win. President Trump received, done by one of the most brilliant political people, President Trump received more votes than any previous incumbent president in history. And we lost. And we lost. So, we received more votes than anybody in history, any incumbent in history, and we lost, supposedly. We didn’t lose. You’re going to see that. No incumbent who received 75% of the total primary vote lost reelection in the history of our country. President Trump received 94, not 74. 94, which is one of the highest in history.
In fact, President Trump is the only one of five incumbents since 1912 to receive more than 90% of the primary vote. And again, anybody received over 75%, they won. We got 94%. President Trump set a record for the most primary votes ever received by an incumbent, ever. And nobody that’s received all of the primary votes, nobody’s received at a much lesser level than what we, they always won. But we didn’t according to what they say. It’s rigged. It’s a fixed deal. Nationally, initial numbers show that 26% of President Trump’s voting share came from nonwhite voters. The highest percentage for a GOP presidential candidate since 1960. That’s a long time ago. President Trump won … Think of this one. President Trump won 18 of 19 bellwether counties. You know what a bellwether county is, it’s a big deal. So I won 18 of 19, a record, never happened. That between 1980 and 2016 voted for the eventual president in every single election, and before that, it was almost every election. And we won a record 18 of 19. Never lost. Nobody’s ever lost with anything like that.
Biden did not demonstrate coattails for the downballot races, had no coattails. I’m shocked to hear that. In fact, he got 80 million votes. But what he made a Thanksgiving day speech on the internet, they say he had less than a thousand people. How do you have 80 million votes and you have a thousand people? Now how do you have 80 million votes and you have less than a thousand people?
With Republicans maintaining control … So here’s what happened. So Biden didn’t demonstrate coattails downballot races, but with Republicans maintaining control, first time this has ever happened, control of the Senate, winning all 27 toss-up races in the House. Kevin McCarthy, great job. Mitch, great job. Winning all 27 toss-up races. And now, think of it. We didn’t lose a seat in the House. Think of this. The first time that anybody, I think in history, we didn’t lose one seat. Normally, you lose two, three, five, and you replay. We lost nobody sitting in Congress. I worked hard in the House, with Kevin McCarthy, not losing a single legislative chamber and making big gains at the state level and holding onto the Senate. I mean, look at what’s happened. We better hold onto the Senate, you two. And there’s never been numbers like that where a president even came close to losing, but they say we lost. The only way is they stuffed the ballot boxes. President Trump won. President Trump won as we said both in Florida and then Ohio. And by the way, won by a lot. Remember the fake polls where they said he’s down by four in Florida, and I won by a lot. He’s down by two in Ohio, and we won. I think we got eight or nine or something, up. But nobody’s ever done that. Those two very powerful, big, important states. And the beauty is that we also won Georgia, and that was good. We won South Carolina and we won Iowa. Remember, we’re not going to win an Iowa they said. We’re not going to win. I think the farmers like Trump a lot, right? Well, we want an Iowa by a lot. We won in Iowa by close to record numbers. I think I have the record. And we won all over the place. And many of these swing states, it’s a very interesting statistic. President Obama beat Biden all over the country, except in some of the swing states where Biden beat him badly. How does that work? And they say it’s statistically impossible. He beat crooked Hillary. Think of this. He beat crooked Hillary in the swing states, but she beat him everywhere else. Let me tell you, this election was rigged and we can’t let it happen to two of the greatest, most respected people in Washington. We can’t let it happen again. Can’t let it happen. Can’t let it happen. Can’t let it happen. Your governor could stop it very easily if he knew what the hell he was doing. He could stop it very easily. Hundreds of thousands of illegal votes were cast in each state. Far from … I mean, if you look at this, hundreds of thousands more than we needed were cast in every state we’re talking about, not only here, but Michigan, Pennsylvania. How about Pennsylvania where they throw the poll Watchers out? They threw them out. They literally threw them out. And they did it here too, by the way. But we caught them cold and have numerous cases pending. And so far we haven’t been able to find the people with the courage to do the right thing. And that is true in Georgia, certainly. But we’re going to hit those people and they’re going to go down in history as great people. They’re going to go down because everyone knows what took place. But we’re going to talk about the presidential election a little bit later because we have a big senatorial race going on in Georgia and we are watching Democrats very, very closely. And remember this, we had this massive race all over the country, so they could cheat in Georgia and people aren’t really watching it like they should. And again, all I can do is say I’m running, win, and then do a good job as president. That’s all. I don’t run the elections. I don’t run to see if people are walking in with suitcases and putting them under a table with a black robe around it. I don’t do that. That’s up to your government here. And for whatever reason, your secretary of state and your governor are afraid of Stacey Abrams. They’re afraid of her. So we know the Democrats are planning to cheat and we can’t let them do it again. And we’re going to pull ours out one way or the other. But we have to be vigilant because I don’t want these two to work like that I … I thought we were going to easily win. And then maybe for the first time in a long time, I’d go take a nice little vacation for about two days and then we’d go back. And instead, I probably worked harder in the last three weeks than I’ve ever worked in my life doing this. And I’ve become friendly with legislators that I didn’t know four weeks ago and actually, they’re great people. In fact, in my pocket right here, we have a couple of them right here. Where’s Burt Jones. Where’s Burt Jones? Burt. Burt, boy, you’re a young guy. I thought you were young, but not that young. Burt Jones, I want to thank you, Burt, for being here. You’re friendly with a man next to you, right? He’s a man of courage. Thank you very much, Burt. I appreciate everything you’re doing and so does this big crowd. And this is a big … This is a lot of people. Also, Brandon Beach, Senator Brandon Beach. Brandon, thank you for everything. We appreciate it. William Liggins. William. Where’s William? Why are you so far away, William, from them? Oh, I like that group better actually. I agree. And Greg Dolezal, where’s Greg? Greg, thank you very much, Greg. We appreciate it. Really do. We appreciate it. Great people. And we said, have this brought back into your legislature, governor, have it brought back. Let these people make it. Keep it open, keep it transparent, and let us have a signature verification. What’s wrong with that? They keep counting the same votes. I said, “Don’t count votes, look at the signature. You’re going to find the signatures aren’t what they were two years ago, four years ago, six years ago.” But are two great Senate opponents, and these are the two people that fight and they’re going to fight like … I don’t know if you know this, but one of the people that you’re fighting, I went against him, Ossoff, four years ago. He was against a very fine woman, Karen, who was a great woman, and he was leading by quite a bit and we ended up beating him. He didn’t even live in the district. He was running for Congress. He didn’t even live in the district. So we’re going to have the same thing. But Ossoff and Warnock will be total pawns of Chuck Schumer, Crying Chuck. I only see him cry when the cameras are on. But he said, he did say this, maybe I’m hurting you when I say, he did say this, “If we get in we’re going to absolutely make Donald Trump’s life miserable.” Can you believe that? That’s Chuck Schumer. He made the statement. “We’re going to investigate him.” Oh, those investigations, we’ll go on and on. Well, they’ve been investigating me since the day we came down on the escalator, which what turned out to be our great First Lady, we came down to the escalator, right? Okay. And a spider in our campaign and lots of other things. But Nancy Pelosi, AOC, Bernie Sanders, and the lunatic radical left, that’s what you’re going to have. As Chuck Schumer said rather infamously, “First we take Georgia, then we take America.” But they don’t mean to take America in a good sense. They mean bring it over to things that the people of Georgia don’t want. You’re not going to like it when they want to take over your farm. “Gee, we own this farm too. We were here also. We own this farm.” Here’s exactly how they will change America forever. The radical Democrats, if they get power, they will immediately abolish the Senate filibuster, allowing them to pass any bill they want and giving them free rein to ram through the most extreme left-wing agenda ever conceived while at the same time, destroying our military through a lack of funding. And by the way, tell our senators end Section 230. End Section 230. Put it in. We put it in. I want it in the defense bill. Put it in because it’s a national security problem. It’s a big national security. So hopefully, Mitch and the senators will put it in. But it’s the one chance we have to bring big tech, who are vicious and violent and untruthful, to bring big tech … It’s the only thing they fear is that we’re going to end Section 230. So hopefully, we will do it. It happens to be a politically very popular thing to do, by the way. If these people get control, their draconian, military cuts will devastate Fort Benning, Fort Gordon, and the military families all across Georgia. We would also like to save the names of the forts if you don’t mind everybody. They have the right. They put in the Elizabeth Pocahontas Warren clause, where they have the right to take all the names of our past warriors heroes in some cases, many cases, some turned out to be heroes in disguise, perhaps, but they want to take the names off and they have the right to desecrate, to take down, to destroy, to demolish places in our national parks that we don’t want demolished. So we have to be very careful of that. We can’t let that happen. They want to put it in our military bill. Of all people, Elizabeth Warren puts that clause in the military bill. They will impose total open borders so that people can pour into our country and they will give them free healthcare, free welfare, and the right to vote in your elections. You won’t ever win another election as a Republic. They even want to take down the wall. The wall, I won on the wall too. We won on a lot of things. “Take down the wall,” I heard him say it the other day. “We will take down the wall.” We have the strongest border we’ve ever had now. We’re almost finished with the wall. Strongest border, right, Sonny? And we built it despite … It’s incredible, the effect it’s having. We built it despite, everybody said no chance. I mean, we had a whole very powerful Democrat party oppose me. And yesterday, I don’t know if you saw it, the court-
Oppose me. And yesterday, I don’t know if you saw it, the court just ruled that the money I took was taken legally. So at least we have a legal wall. The appeals court. So we took it and we built the wall and we’ll be finished with it very soon, but it’s had a tremendous impact on illegal immigrants coming into the country. And by the way, we want people to come into our country, you see that by the vote I got, but we want people to come in legally and through merit. Through merit, where they can help us. The radical Democrats will implement nationwide catch and release. You know that is? You catch a killer, you catch a rapist and you say, “Oh, thank you very much. Please give us your name. Oh, come back in three years. We’re going to put you on trial. Oh, Good.” You never see them by the way. Remember I had that debate with Joe Biden? He said, “No, they come back.” Yeah, they don’t come back. They don’t come back. No. They don’t come back. Like, never. Maybe 1%, but I doubt it. That’s the end of them. You let them loose in our country. I got rid of it. You think that was easy?
And install sanctuary cities all across the country, that’s what they want, freeing criminal aliens and MS-13 gang members, the most vicious people. They don’t like guns because it’s not painful enough. They like using knives. It’s true. They don’t like guns, they’d rather cut somebody up. To wreak havoc and terror upon innocent families. We’ve moved thousands and thousands of MS-13s the hell out of our country. We moved them back to where they came from. And some, we put in prison because they’re too dangerous to move back because they’ll try and figure away. They’re not stupid. They’re vicious, but they’re not stupid, sort of like the Democrats if you think about.
They’ll confiscate privately owned firearms and share… What they will do, they will share everything with themselves, only dangerous equipment. And they will totally cut up a thing called your second amendment rights. They’ll Make Washington DC a State and many other places guaranteeing two, four, or six additional left wing senators. They want to make numerous places States, this way you have a lot more… Louie, you’re going to have a lot more company in Congress. You’ll have lots of… You’ll have another 30, 40 congressional people from places you’ve never even heard of. You’ve never even heard of. Louie Gohmert. The great Louie Gohmert.
And there’ll be voting against Georgia every time, completely canceling out your voice in Washington forever like David Perdue. I’ll never forget it. You got hit by a piece of a hurricane. Remember that? The farmers got hit so hard. And I went with Sonny and with David or some other great people from Georgia. And I said, “Is there a way we can pay these people?” They never asked for anything, and their orchards were wiped out. One of the men said, “This was going to be the best crop I ever had. I was a week and a half away from finally, after 10, 12 years making some money.” And a week and a half early, he gets hit by the remnants of that big hurricane from Florida. Great state, great place. But you got hit. And David, we took 100% care of those people, right? We took 100% care, yeah, with the help of Sonny Purdue, Secretary of Agriculture. And I felt so good.
But I met them. There were 33 of them standing and they were all in the line. “What do you do?” “I have this?” “What?” It was a tragic… And nobody wanted anything. They didn’t even want it. They said, “If we could borrow it, if we could…” They didn’t want it. These are incredible people. They don’t want anything. They just want a level playing field, but we took care of them. They’d never forgot it either. It’s very interesting. I still hear from some of those people. The extreme left will pack the Supreme Court with 24 radical Justices. That’s the last number I heard. I used to hear it was 16, now it’s up to 24. Pretty soon, you’ll have another Congress. Twenty-four radical justice is instead of nine justices that we have right now. And they want them to revolve up and down the court system so that Supreme Court Justices can spend time in other locations, down the totem pole. They want to hurt the Supreme Court and they want to hurt it very badly. And if these two don’t get in, or if I don’t get in and these don’t, we got to get… The best would be all three. Nothing will happen. All three. But they want to destroy the sanctity of the Supreme Court, the importance of the Supreme Court, the majesty of the Supreme Court. They’ll terminate religious liberty, cancel free speech, and force you to fund extreme late-term abortion. And there will be nothing to stop them. If they don’t get in, there’s going to be nothing to stop them. You have no idea how bad it will be. There will be nothing. I used to argue with certain people about the filibuster. I said, look, I don’t like it either, but I do it because I know they are going to do it. Everybody said, “Oh, they’ll never do it.” They’re doing it. They’ve already announced they’re going to do it. That means they can do anything they want. And the Republicans, they play a different game. I don’t know, maybe they love the country more. But they said, “No, no, they’ll never do it.” And I said, “Well Schumer, he’ll do it the first day he gets in, he’ll do it.”
